
As a health research postgraduate trained in Peking University, the top academic institution in China, and with my great interest in health science research, I now stand ready to pursue a Ph.D. and an academic career.Presently, I studied at a leading health science center of public health research. With the skills that I have learned in the public health department and the mathematics department, I spent part of my time on health survey of drug users and part of my time on data analysis and model building of tuberculosis.Since I was born, I was naturally drawn to the medical field as being an identical twin more susceptible to various allergies than my sister. After being curious about my own allergies to pollen, shrimp and maybe industry exhaust, I started to think about why we shared identical genes and raised in the same family but ended in different health status. Besides, everyone presumed you could ‘read each other’s minds’ and ‘feel your twin’s pain’, but it seldom happened. But if it is true, I would rather believe the similar environment does this rather than the DNA does. As for my feelings, it’s like just because you share the same genes doesn’t mean you are the same person, and the psychological issue of identifying and being identified as an individual is the main twin trouble for me. Gradually, I planted a wish seed into my heart that in the future I would be a scientist in the domain of genetics, environment or mental health.In the summer of 2003, I was about to graduated from elementary school, the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), a deadly stypical pneumonia, originated from southern China spread to northern China, where I lived. This respiratory infectious disease has has caused consternation and rumors have been swirling that the traditional Chinese herb Banlangen can cure and white vinegar can prevent the new disease. I can still remember how much Banlangen my families and I took those days, and it had been difficult to buy white vinegar in the country. However, these turned out to be nonsense. To date there have been no clinical trials or observations confirming the efficacy of Banlangen and vinegar against the virus. There are many lessons I learned from the epidemic, and I felt obliged both to improve the public’s health knowledge, and to rebuild our disease surveillance system.

In year 2010, I graduated from senior high school, with an outstanding mark and with the keen interest toward medicine, I did not hesitate in applying for the best medical University in my province, Department of Medicine, Shandong University. I was admitted to the school of public health, and I have attended theoretical courses and also experimental courses, such as biochemistry and molecular biology experiment, cell biology experiment. I also interned in the second hospital of Shandong University(SHSU) and Qingdao disease control and prevention center (CDC). Anticipating a more data-intensive healthcare future, I studied mathematics as my second major alongside medicine, which have laid the foundation needed for modern health research.


In 2013, I started working in the lab led by Prof. Fuzhong Xue and started my Bachelor’s project. My project aimed to investigate spatiotemporal epidemiological characteristics of gastric cancer mortality. I performed spatial autocorrelation and spatial cluster analysis, detected hot spots of gastric cancer mortality and compared the changes in disease pattern to the 1970s. 

I was offered acceptance into Peking University graduate school after I graduated from Shandong University. Under the supervision of Prof. ZhongWei Jia, associate director of the National Institute of Drug Dependence, I got advanced training on epidemiology and biostatistics. 

Over the past two years, my research mainly centres on the drug resistance of tuberculosis, including disease surveillance, poor treatment outcomes and prediction of the epidemics. Luckily, two of my articles had already been published until now, and my recent work on mathematical modeling of tuberculosis epidemics in Zhejiang, China had been under review.

At the same time, anticipating a more data-intensive healthcare future, I studied programming on Coursera, and devoted to make all my work reusable through publishing my codes on github. The ’digital’ program ’Survey on drug users through electronic pads’ that I participated into also strive to improve public health and healthcare services for the benefit of patients through cutting edge informatics research and digital health innovation.

Through participating into master thesis working and other works entrusted by some cooperative organizations, I have both enhanced my ability to do independent research and cooperate with others closely, and these work made me felt the joyful feeling of achievement. I believe that my past research experiences has given me an unwavering spirit to my future research.